notes.md, before:

# Notes

### Milestones
- Set up
  - Pull repo, initialize container
  - QoL aliases
    `alias qq="cd ~/Desktop/Takehome/engineering_take_home"`
    `alias ds="docker compose exec web bash`
    `alias dt="docker compose exec web bash -c 'RAILS_ENV=test bundle exec rspec'"`
  - Initialize DB
  - Happy path rails s + welcome_spec
- Map out Data Modeling
- Build Models
- Build validation engine
- API
  - Buildings#index
    - pagination
  - Buildings#create
  - Buildings#update


### DATA MODELING
- Client
  - id
  - name (unique, case insensitive / citext or not? Store the casing but ensure no dupes)
  - timestamps
- Building
  - id
  - address     (string)
  - state       (Enum)
  - zip5        (int, limit 5)
  - client_id
- CustomField
  - id
  - key (string, unique)
  - label (string, unique)
  - field_type (enum numer, string, enum)
  - enum_options (default: [])
  - active (boolean, default: false)
  - client_id
  - timestamps
- CustomValues
  - id
  - building_id
  - custom_field_id
  - value (jsonb)

### RELATIONSHIPS
- client has_many :buildings
- client has_many :custom_fields
- building belongs_to :client
- building has_one :custom_value
- custom_value belongs_to :building
- custom_field belongs_to :client

### CONSIDERATIONS
- All custom_values must be owned by a building. Clients should not get separate versions of a walkway to the same building
- Avoid database duplication. We need a multi tenant configurable schema
- Not required but essentially allow us to CRUD a data contract per client. Allow what shared data each client can pluck from the single source of custom data truth.
- Envision data models that will increase volatility and irregularity as we scale
- Persist presentational logic for custom field labels (this saves the FE time for what is typically clientside responsibility but we are the source of truth, not their hardcoded conditional logic)
- JSONB
  - Shift data dependencies out of the DB and into the class layer via validation engine
  - Utilize GIS indexing for performance needs (less than 150m homes in the US, should suffice). Convention to gatekeep nested data
- We should only include the customvalue data on eagerload. The assumption is that not all clients may require any of this so reduce unnecessary fetching and we can segregate on a separate table should we need to ever need to correct metadata in an operation / maintenance.
- 


- Local VCS Strategy (joejung/submission_master)
  - [merged] initialize
  - [merged] plan_data_modeling 
  - create_data_models

Commit message:

ading test coverage for custom_field model

notes.md, after:

# Notes

### Milestones
- Set up
  - Pull repo, initialize container
  - QoL aliases
    `alias qq="cd ~/Desktop/Takehome/engineering_take_home"`
    `alias ds="docker compose exec web bash`
    `alias dt="docker compose exec web bash -c 'RAILS_ENV=test bundle exec rspec'"`
  - Initialize DB
  - Happy path rails s + welcome_spec
- Map out Data Modeling
- Build Models
- Build validation engine
- API
  - Buildings#index
    - pagination
  - Buildings#create
  - Buildings#update


### DATA MODELING
- Client
  - id
  - name (unique, case insensitive / citext or not? Store the casing but ensure no dupes)
  - timestamps
- Building
  - id
  - address     (string)
  - state       (Enum)
  - zip5        (int, limit 5)
  - client_id
- CustomField
  - id
  - key (string, unique)
  - label (string, unique)
  - field_type (enum numer, string, enum)
  - enum_options (default: [])
  - active (boolean, default: false)
  - client_id
  - timestamps
- CustomValues
  - id
  - building_id
  - custom_field_id
  - value (jsonb)

### RELATIONSHIPS
- client has_many :buildings
- client has_many :custom_fields
- building belongs_to :client
- building has_one :custom_value
- custom_value belongs_to :building
- custom_field belongs_to :client

### CONSIDERATIONS
- All custom_values must be owned by a building. Clients should not get separate versions of a walkway to the same building
- Avoid database duplication. We need a multi tenant configurable schema
- Not required but essentially allow us to CRUD a data contract per client. Allow what shared data each client can pluck from the single source of custom data truth.
- Envision data models that will increase volatility and irregularity as we scale
- Persist presentational logic for custom field labels (this saves the FE time for what is typically clientside responsibility but we are the source of truth, not their hardcoded conditional logic)
- JSONB
  - Shift data dependencies out of the DB and into the class layer via validation engine
    - Avoid table creep as data classification is irregular. Square footage inside vs outside, above ground, GLA, finished, total_finished, etc 
    - changing custom field + value definitions is easier in code vs altering DB schema (ex: type of walkway -> type of walkway material: [natural, synthetic, misc])
  - Utilize GIS indexing for performance needs (less than 150m homes in the US, should suffice). Convention to gatekeep nested data
- We should segregate the custom_values table and only include them explicitly for eagerloading. The assumption is that not all clients may require the meta data or various service levels support that level of data provisioning to start with.
- 


- Local VCS Strategy (joejung/submission_master)
  - [merged] initialize
  - [merged] plan_data_modeling 
  - create_data_models
